feat(request-trace): unify payload logging (#11180)
ai-dynamo/dynamo: docs/observability/logging.md

command to set the SGLang engine's log level directly (e.g.
`--log-level DEBUG`). This is independent of `DYN_LOG`.

> ## Request Payload Logging (OTLP)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request Trace Records (OTLP)
```

Author: again, I think we keep it as logging as it's more accurate imo

Dynamo emits per-request `/v1/chat/completions` payloads through request trace.
The `request_payload` row carries the client request and, when one completes,
the response. The same `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_SINKS` setting selects local
files, stderr, NATS, and OTLP log export.

Request payload logging is opt-in and independent of `OTEL_EXPORT_ENABLED`
(which controls application log and trace export). By default, Dynamo does not
emit request or response payload rows, even when the OpenAI request sets
`store=true`. Set `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_RECORDS=request_payload` to emit payload

> rows for every eligible chat request, or include `request_payload` alongside

Reviewer: what does 'eligible' mean here - is that when store=true ?

Author: this is just a chat completions request when request tracing enabled and request payload logging enabled. i'll remove eligible, so it's more clear.

other selected record types.

> [!WARNING]
> Audit payload logging has migrated to request trace. This is a breaking
> migration for legacy audit consumers: the `store=true` audit trigger and old
> audit wire schema are not preserved. Payload rows use
> `dynamo.request.trace.v1` with `event_type=request_payload`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The OTLP payload path is enabled by `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_SINKS=otel`, or
> by combining sinks such as `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_SINKS=file,otel`.
> Setting `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_SINKS=stderr` together with
> `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT` writes request trace JSON directly to
> stderr only; it does not export payload records over OTLP.

### How records are emitted

- One `dynamo.request.trace.v1` record with `event_type=request_payload` is
  published per eligible chat request.

> - On client cancellation, gateway timeout, or aggregation failure, the record is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When requests are cancelled or fail, the record is
```

If there are partial responses - we do get the partial trace, is that correct?

Author: yes, that's what the bullet point is stating

  still emitted with `payload.response` omitted, so those cases remain
  inspectable. A hard process crash before emission can lose a record.
- Each `otel` sink record maps to one OTLP `LogRecord`: scope
  `dynamo.request_trace`, body `request_payload`, with attributes `schema`,
  `event_type`, `rid`, `endpoint`, `model`, `streaming`, `payload_complete`,
  and `payload` (the request trace row serialized as a JSON string).

### Configuration

Payload-related request trace variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|

> | `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE` | Master switch for request trace. When enabled and `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_RECORDS` is unset, emits `request_end,tool`. | unset (disabled) |

Reviewer: might be simpler to just mention defaults for request trace records instead of the "enabled but x is unset" - this seems a little awkward

> | `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_RECORDS` | Comma-separated record types: `request_end`, `request_payload`, `tool`. Include `request_payload` to emit request and response payload bodies. | `request_end,tool` when `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE=1`; unset otherwise |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_RECORDS` | Comma-separated record types: `request_end`, `request_payload`, `tool`. Include `request_payload` to emit request and response payload bodies. | `request_end,tool` |
```

> | `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_SINKS` | Comma-separated sinks: `file`, `stderr`, `nats`, `otel`. | `file` when enabled |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DYN_REQUEST_TRACE_SINKS` | Comma-separated sinks: `file`, `stderr`, `nats`, `otel`. | `file` |
```
